_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "JJ Markus"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## Hello — welcome 👋
I’m **Julian Jonathan (JJ) Markus**, a Ph.D. candidate in **Organizational Design and Behavior** at **WU Vienna University of Economics and Business**.  
My work sits at the intersection of **organizational design**, **ways of working**, and **employee behavior** — with a clear aim: **how people can prosper at work, and how organizations can align human flourishing with organizational success**.

---

<img src="{{ '/assets/images/jj-hero.jpg' | relative_url }}" alt="JJ Markus" style="width:100%; max-width:900px; border-radius:16px; margin: 10px 0 20px 0;" />

---

## What I do (in one sentence)
I study **how organizational structures shape human behaviour at work**, and how we can design organizations that are both **more humane** and **more effective**.

---

## My PhD in four streams
My doctoral research asks how the **decentralization of organizational structures** impacts workers. Specifically, I focus on:

1. **Negative outcomes of high worker autonomy**  
2. **Founder ideologies for self-management**  
3. **Strategic exploration and exploitation by workers in self-managing organizations**  
4. **The relationship between performance management and hierarchies**

---

## Research approach
The central question that motivates my research is how we can improve organizations for the sake of employees and, consequently, drive organizational success.

Theoretically, I study these problems through lenses of **organizational design** and **organizational behavior** at the **organizational, group, and individual levels**. My research portfolio revolves around the relationship between organizational design and behavior: how the organizations we create shape the behavior of people within them — and vice versa.

Beyond my doctoral research, I am involved in a range of projects focused on problems for workers in organizations, studying **decentralization, feedback, leadership, and research impact**.

---

## Practice impact & partnerships
I am passionate about ensuring that research generates not only academic contributions but also practical impact. As co-founder of **[People & Self-Managing Organizations (PASMO)](https://www.rsm.nl/faculty-research/pasmo/)** and a team member of **[Headquarters in Austria (HiA)](https://www.wu.ac.at/en/hia-home/hia-project)**, I work closely with organizations and practitioners to co-create knowledge and develop insights that support new ways of working.

If you are an organization experimenting with decentralization or self-management, feel free to reach out — I’m always interested in connecting research with real design challenges.

---

## Teaching
I teach courses on **organizational design** and **organizational behavior** at the bachelor’s and master’s levels, aiming to equip future leaders with tools to design more effective and humane workplaces.

---

## Background 
Previously, I was a visiting researcher at **Rotterdam School of Management** and **INSEAD**. I also worked as a research assistant at Rotterdam School of Management, where I earned the **MSc in Human Resource Management** (graduating with distinction) and received the **HRM Thesis of the Year Award (2022)**.

Before academia, I completed the International Management double degree at **Avans University of Applied Sciences** and **NEOMA Business School** (Reims). From **2011 to 2020**, I worked in industry in roles ranging from frontline employee to middle manager and HR specialist, gaining international experience in the **Netherlands, Malta, Bulgaria, France, and Belgium**.

---

## Links
For all other web and media, see: **[Julian Jonathan Markus](https://linktr.ee/julian_jonathan_markus)**

If you’d like the fastest way to navigate this site, I recommend starting with:
- a projects/publications page (research outputs)
- a practice page (workshops, whitepapers, blogs)
- a contact page (one-click email + links)

Commit message:

Update about page with new research focus
Added focus on The Managerial Hierarchy and revised PhD description.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "JJ Markus"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## Hello — welcome 👋
I’m **Julian Jonathan (JJ) Markus**, a Ph.D. candidate in **Organizational Design and Behavior** at **WU Vienna University of Economics and Business**.  
My work sits at the intersection of **organizational design**, **ways of working**, and **employee behavior** — with a clear aim: **how people can prosper at work, and how organizations can align human flourishing with organizational success**. The key phenomenon I focus on is **The Managerial Hierarchy**.

---

<img src="{{ '/assets/images/jj-hero.jpg' | relative_url }}" alt="JJ Markus" style="width:100%; max-width:900px; border-radius:16px; margin: 10px 0 20px 0;" />

---

## What I do (in one sentence)
I study **how organizational designs shape human behaviour at work**, and how we can design organizations that are both **more humane** and **more effective**.

---

## My doctoral thesis 
My doctoral research asks how the **managerial hierarchy can be distributed** and **what the implications are for workers**.

1. **Negative outcomes of high worker autonomy**  
2. **Founder ideologies for self-management**  
3. **Strategic exploration and exploitation by workers in self-managing organizations**  
4. **The relationship between performance management and hierarchies**

---

## Research approach
The central question that motivates my research is how we can improve organizations for the sake of employees and, consequently, drive organizational success.

Theoretically, I study these problems through lenses of **organizational design** and **organizational behavior** at the **organizational, group, and individual levels**. My research portfolio revolves around the relationship between organizational design and behavior: how the organizations we create shape the behavior of people within them — and vice versa.

Beyond my doctoral research, I am involved in a range of projects focused on problems for workers in organizations, studying **decentralization, feedback, leadership, and research impact**.

---

## Practice impact & partnerships
I am passionate about ensuring that research generates not only academic contributions but also practical impact. As co-founder of **[People & Self-Managing Organizations (PASMO)](https://www.rsm.nl/faculty-research/pasmo/)** and a team member of **[Headquarters in Austria (HiA)](https://www.wu.ac.at/en/hia-home/hia-project)**, I work closely with organizations and practitioners to co-create knowledge and develop insights that support new ways of working.

If you are an organization experimenting with decentralization or self-management, feel free to reach out — I’m always interested in connecting research with real design challenges.

---

## Teaching
I teach courses on **organizational design** and **organizational behavior** at the bachelor’s and master’s levels, aiming to equip future leaders with tools to design more effective and humane workplaces.

---

## Background 
Previously, I was a visiting researcher at **Rotterdam School of Management** and **INSEAD**. I also worked as a research assistant at Rotterdam School of Management, where I earned the **MSc in Human Resource Management** (graduating with distinction) and received the **HRM Thesis of the Year Award (2022)**.

Before academia, I completed the International Management double degree at **Avans University of Applied Sciences** and **NEOMA Business School** (Reims). From **2011 to 2020**, I worked in industry in roles ranging from frontline employee to middle manager and HR specialist, gaining international experience in the **Netherlands, Malta, Bulgaria, France, and Belgium**.

---

## Links
For all other web and media, see: **[Julian Jonathan Markus](https://linktr.ee/julian_jonathan_markus)**

If you’d like the fastest way to navigate this site, I recommend starting with:
- a projects/publications page (research outputs)
- a practice page (workshops, whitepapers, blogs)
- a contact page (one-click email + links)
